Add first deweb doc (#326)
massalabs/docs: docs/deweb/getting-started/setup-public-instance.mdx

---
title: Setting up a Public Instance
---

# Setting up a Public Instance

Setting up a public DeWeb instance allows you to provide access to decentralized websites through your own domain.
Follow these steps to get started.

:::caution Important Notice
When running a public instance of DeWeb, be aware that exposing everything on-chain might expose illegal content.
As the owner of the public instance, you might be held responsible for the content served.
We strongly recommend using the block/allow list to ensure your DeWeb instance does not serve illegal content,

> thereby protecting yourself from potential legal actions.

Reviewer: "Because these public instances will be independent of each other, they will have the right to determine a permission-ability level as to which content is served by their instance. Each provider can use the included blocklist/whitelist system to control which decentralized websites they are willing to serve in compliance with their local regulations." ---> you might want to take inspiration from the formulation if needed

---
title: Setting up a Public Instance
---

# Setting up a Public Instance

Setting up a public DeWeb instance allows you to provide access to decentralized websites through your own domain.
Follow these steps to get started.

:::caution Important Notice

> When running a public instance of DeWeb, be aware that hosting on-chain content might expose illegal material.
> As the instance owner, you could be held responsible for the served content.
> To protect yourself from legal actions, we strongly recommend using the block/allow list to control the content.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Depending on your country and  jurisdiction, serving on-chain content publicly might have legal implications. We strongly recommend you getting to know your local regulations to ensure proper compliance.

This software provides both blocklist and allowlist functions to control which websites you wish to serve.
```

> When running a public instance of DeWeb, be aware that hosting on-chain content might expose illegal material.
> As the instance owner, you could be held responsible for the served content.
> To protect yourself from legal actions, we strongly recommend using the block/allow list to control the content.
> 
> Public instances will operate independently and can set their own content policies.
> Each provider can use the blocklist/whitelist system to comply with local regulations.
> 
> Please note that Massa Labs and the Massa Foundation are not responsible for on-chain content
> and do not restrict uploads to the blockchain.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Depending on your country and  jurisdiction, serving on-chain content publicly might have legal implications. We strongly recommend you getting to know your local regulations to ensure proper compliance.

Providers operate independently and can set their own content policies.
Each provider can use the blocklist/whitelist system to comply with local regulations by selecting the websites they wish or not to serve.
```

:::

## Step 1: Download the Binary

1. Visit the [DeWeb Releases](https://github.com/massalabs/DeWeb/releases/latest) page on GitHub.
2. Download the binary file matching your operating system and architecture:

   - **Linux**: `deweb-server-linux-{arch}`
   - **Windows**: `deweb-server-windows-{arch}`
   - **MacOS (Darwin)**: `deweb-server-darwin-{arch}` (For Apple Silicon, choose `arm64`)

   If your target or architecture is missing, please [open an issue](https://github.com/massalabs/DeWeb/issues)
   to request it.

## Step 2: Extract the Binary

1. Extract the downloaded file if it is in a zip format.

## Step 3: Configure the Server

1. Create a configuration file named `deweb_server_config.yaml` in the same directory as the server binary.
2. At a minimum, set the `domain` field in the configuration file. For example, if you own the domain `example.com`
   and will make your DeWeb instance available on it, set the `domain` to `example.com`.

### Example Configuration

```yaml
domain: "example.com"

> network_node_url: "https://buildnet.massa.net/api/v2"

Reviewer 2: we should also add the recommendation to run their own node and link to the tutorial to run a node

api_port: 8080
allow_list:
  - "allowed-domain"
  - "AS1Seo2..."
block_list:
  - "blocked-domain"
  - "AS1REo4..."
```

> The allow/block lists allow you to control which websites are accessible through your instance.

Reviewer 2: maybe just say that if there is any website in the allow list, all other websites are blocked

### General Steps:

1. **Obtain an HTTPS Certificate**: Get an SSL certificate for `*.example.com`.
   You can use services like Let's Encrypt to get a free certificate.
2. **Configure Your Web Server**: Set up your web server to:
   - Listen on port 80 and redirect HTTP requests to HTTPS.
   - Listen on port 443 for HTTPS requests.
   - Proxy requests to your DeWeb server running on `localhost:8080`.

For specific configurations, refer to the documentation of the web server you are using (e.g., Nginx, Apache).

## Step 6: Copy the Files to the Server

Copy the extracted binary and the configuration file (`deweb_server_config.yaml`) to your server.
You can use tools like `scp` or any other method you prefer to transfer files to your server.

## Step 7: Run the Server

1. Open your terminal.
2. Navigate to the directory where the binary and configuration file are located.
3. Run the server with the following command:

   ```bash
   ./deweb-server
   ```

   (On Windows, use `deweb-server.exe`instead of`./deweb-server`)

## Step 8: Access the Server

Your DeWeb instance will be accessible from the domain you configured. For example,

> if you set the domain to `example.com`, you can access your DeWeb instance at `http://example.com`.

Reviewer 2: the example should be more concrete (with an example subdomain): 

mywebsite.massa.example.com
